2FA post (#334)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-05-17-requiring-2fa-for-the-ropensci-github-organization/index.md

---

> title: Requiring 2FA for our main GitHub Organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Requiring 2FA for Our Main GitHub Organization
```

author:
  - Maëlle Salmon
date: '2022-05-17'
slug: requiring-2fa-for-the-ropensci-github-organization
categories: []
tags:
  - github
  - security
  - tech notes
package_version: 0.1.0
description: How we went about requiring two-factor authentication for our main GitHub organization
---

Following our recent post on ["Safeguards and Backups for GitHub Organizations"](/blog/2022/03/22/safeguards-and-backups-for-github-organizations/), one month ago we went one step further and made two-factor authentication (2FA) required for all members and outside collaborators of our main organization, ropensci.
Here is how we went about it.

> ## Why (not) requiring 2FA?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why (not) require 2FA?
```

Before confirming the 2FA requirement, GitHub actually shows you which members you are about to remove from the organization.
We went ahead anyway as we assumed the GitHub notification might reach some of them better than our previous email, and as the removal of people is reversible as soon as they have enabled 2FA.

## Re-instating organization members

After we pulled the switch on April 19th, a few people reached out to tell us they had enabled 2FA.
It was straightforward to add them back to the organization as GitHub lets you choose to [_re-instate_ an organization member](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/managing-membership-in-your-organization/reinstating-a-former-member-of-your-organization) within three months of their removal, so they get added to the teams and repos they used to belong to.
We strove to re-instate people timely.

If you were an organization member or outside collaborator who was removed from the organization, please reach out to us if you have enabled 2FA and would like to be reinstated, or if you have any question about 2FA.

## Conclusion

Two-factor authentication is now required for our main GitHub organization.

> It is a change for the best of most, but that might have created some pain and frustration for a few people depending on when they got the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was a change made for the best for most people, but which might have created some pain and frustration for a few people depending on when they got the notification.
```

We thank everyone for their collaboration and understanding.

As a further GitHub security step for us and you, dear reader, let's mention

> - pruning repositories from former, now inactive, collaborators;

Reviewer: Link to info on this?
